---
category: api
---

A number of methods exist to append one collection of elements to the elements in another collection. Each of these methods accepts either one or two arguments, which correspond to the different ways of creating collections with the `Pablo()` method.

The first argument can be an element, an array of elements, a nodeList, a selector, a Pablo collection or a jQuery collection. Or, the first argument can be the name of a new element (e.g. `'circle'`) and the second argument an object that lists the element's attributes (e.g. `{r:50}`).


`.append(elements, [attributes])`
---------------------------------

Appends the elements to the element(s) in the collection, and returns the collection.

    // Create a <g> 'group' element
    paper.g()
        // Append an element
        .append(document.getElementById('foo'))
        // Append elements targeted by a CSS selector
        .append('.bar')
        // Append elements in a Pablo collection
        .append(Pablo.circle()))
        // Append elements in a jQuery collection
        .append(jQuery('#example'))
        // Append elements in an array
        .append([Pablo.a(), Pablo.g()]);

If `elements` is an element name string and an `attributes` object is supplied, or if `elements` is an _array_ of element names, then new elements will be created and appended for each element in the collection:

    paper.g()
        // Append single created element
        .append('line', {stroke:'black'})
        // Append multiple created elements
        .append(['line', 'circle', 'path'], {stroke:red});

The attributes object is optional when an array of element names is passed.


`.appendTo(elements, [attributes])`
----------------------------------

Appends the elements in the current collection to the element or elements in the first argument, and returns the collection.

    Pablo.circle().appendTo(paper);


`.prepend(elements, [attributes])`
----------------------------------

Same as `.append()` but, with this method, the passed `elements` are inserted into the DOM _as the first child_ of each of the elements in the collection.

    Pablo.g().prepend('circle', {r:50});


`.prependTo(elements, [attributes])`
----------------------------------

Same as `.appendTo()` but, with this method, the elements in the collection are inserted _as the first child_ of the passed `elements`.

    Pablo.circle().prependTo(paper);


`.child(elements, [attributes])`
----------------------------------

Same as `.append()`, but with this method, the _newly appended elements_ are returned as a Pablo collection.

    Pablo.g().child('circle', {r:50});


`.before(elements, [attributes])`
----------------------------------

Same as `.append()` but, with this method, the passed `elements` are inserted into the DOM _before_ each of the elements in the collection.

    Pablo.circle().before('.foo');


`.after(elements, [attributes])`
----------------------------------

Same as `.append()` but, with this method, the passed `elements` are inserted into the DOM after each of the elements in the collection.

    Pablo.circle().after('.foo');


`.insertBefore(elements, [attributes])`
---------------------------------------

Same as `.before()` but, with this method, each of the elements in the collection are inserted into the DOM before the supplied `elements`.

    Pablo('.foo').insertBefore(circle);


`.insertAfter(elements, [attributes])`
---------------------------------------

Same as `.after()` but, with this method, each of the elements in the collection are inserted into the DOM after the supplied `elements`.

    Pablo('.foo').insertAfter(circle);