---
category: reference
heading: "CSS"
---

Many CSS properties available for styling HTML can also used to style SVG. Additionally, many SVG attributes can be used as CSS properties. For more details, see the [list of 'property attributes'][svg-properties] that can be modified with CSS and [this tutorial on Fills and Strokes][fills-strokes].

[svg-properties]: http://www.w3.org/TR/SVG/propidx.html
[fills-strokes]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/SVG/Tutorial/Fills_and_Strokes


`.css(property)`
---------------------

Returns the value of the named CSS property on the first element in the collection.

    var square = Pablo.rect({width: 100}).css({cursor:'pointer'});
    square.css('cursor'); // returns 'pointer'

Note, this is not a _computed style_. This method only returns the value of CSS properties that have been set _directly_ on the element, not those set in any stylesheet.


`.css(property, value)`
----------------------------

Sets the named property to the specified value, on all elements in the collection and returns the collection.

    var square = Pablo.rect({width: 100});
    square.css('cursor', 'pointer');


`.css(styles)`
------------------

Sets multiple styles (passed in as an object), on all elements in the collection and returns the collection.

    square.css({cursor:'pointer', 'z-index':2});


`.cssPrefix(property, value)`
----------------------------

Performs the same action as `.css(property, value)`, but also sets the CSS property with each of the common browser vendor prefixes: `-moz-`, `-webkit-`, `-ms-`, `-o-` and `-khtml-`.

    square.cssPrefix('transform', 'rotate(45deg)');

which is equivalent to:

    square.css({
        transform: 'rotate(45deg)',
        '-moz-transform':  'rotate(45deg)',
        '-webkit-transform':  'rotate(45deg)',
        '-ms-transform':  'rotate(45deg)',
        '-o-transform':  'rotate(45deg)',
        '-khtml-transform':  'rotate(45deg)'
    });

See `Pablo.cssPrefix()` and `Pablo.vendorPrefixes`.


`.cssPrefix(styles)`
------------------

Performs the same action as `.css(styles)`, but also sets the CSS properties with each of the browser vendor prefixes.

    square.cssPrefix({
        transform:  'rotate(45deg)',
        transition: 'all'
    });

which is equivalent to:

    square.css({
        transform:  'rotate(45deg)',
        '-moz-transform':  'rotate(45deg)',
        '-webkit-transform':  'rotate(45deg)',
        '-ms-transform':  'rotate(45deg)',
        '-o-transform':  'rotate(45deg)',
        '-khtml-transform':  'rotate(45deg)',

        transition: 'all',
        '-moz-transition': 'all',
        '-webkit-transition': 'all',
        '-ms-transition': 'all',
        '-o-transition': 'all',
        '-khtml-transition': 'all'
    });


`Pablo.cssPrefix()` provides a comma-separated list of property values:

    square.cssPrefix({
        transform:  'rotate(45deg)',
        transition: Pablo.cssPrefix('transform')
    });

which is equivalent to:

    square.cssPrefix({
        transform:  'rotate(45deg)',
        transition: 'transform, -moz-transform, -webkit-transform, -ms-transform, -o-transform, -khtml-transform'
    });


`<style>` elements
------------------

As with HTML, `<style>` elements in the SVG document can contain CSS rules for elements in the document. Be careful, because the rules can affect styling on the containing HTML document and other inline SVG documents on the page.

Create a `<style>` element with the `.style()` element method, and then add rules to it by setting its `.content()`:

    var paper = Pablo(demoElement).root({height:90});

    paper.circle({cx:50, cy:50, r:25}).addClass('bob');

    // Append a <style> element
    paper.style()
        // Set the text content of the style element to the CSS rules
        .content(
            'circle.bob {fill:green, stroke:red, stroke-width:20}'
        );


Style precedence
----------------

In which order of priority will style properties on an SVG element be processed?

1. `!important` styles set on the element, or on an embedded or linked stylesheet. (See the related projects, '[Cleanslate][cleanslate]' and '[important.js][importantjs]').

[cleanslate]: https://github.com/premasagar/cleanslate
[importantjs]: https://github.com/premasagar/important

2. Styles set directly on the element. For example, set via the element's `style` DOM attribute or the object's `style` property. In Pablo, styles can be set directly on the elements in a collection via the `.css()` method. E.g:

    Pablo(el).css({fill:'green'});

3. A `<style>` element or linked stylesheet will take next priority, whether it is in the containing HTML document or within any inline SVG documents on the page. In Pablo, a `<style>` element can be created with the `.style()` element method. E.g:

    Pablo(el).style().content('* {fill:green}');

4. The element's `property attributes` take next priority. In Pablo, an attribute is set via the `.attr()` method. E.g:

    Pablo(el).attr({fill:'green'});

Precedence of styles:

    var paper = Pablo(demoElement).root({height:40}),
        // Create <style> element
        style = paper.style(),

        // Create circles and set x position
        c1 = paper.circle({cx:20}),
        c2 = paper.circle({cx:70}),
        c3 = paper.circle({cx:120});

    // Set circles' shared attributes
    Pablo([c1, c2, c3]).attr({cy:20, r:20}).addClass('moo');

    // Set styles
    style.content('circle.moo {fill:green}');
    c2.attr({fill: 'orange'});
    c3.css({fill: 'red'});