---
category: api
---

#### [append(elements)](/api/append/)

Append the specified elements to each element in the collection.

#### [prepend(elements)](/api/prepend/)

Prepend the specified elements to each element in the collection.

#### [appendTo(elements)](/api/appendTo/)

Append the elements in the collection to each element specified.

#### [prependTo(element)](/api/prependTo/)

Prepend the elements in the collection to each element specified.

#### [after(element)](/api/after/)

Insert the specified elements after each element in the collection.

#### [before(element)](/api/before/)

Insert the specified elements before each element in the collection.

#### [insertAfter(element)](/api/insertAfter/)

Insert the elements in the collection after each element specified.

#### [insertBefore(element)](/api/insertBefore/)

Insert the elements in the collection before each element specified.

#### [remove()](/api/remove/)

Remove each element in the collection from its parent element and remove any associated data and events.

#### [detach()](/api/detach/)

Remove each element in the collection from its parent element, but don't remove associated data and events.

#### [empty()](/api/empty/)

Remove the child elements of each element in the collection and remove any associated data and events.

#### [content(string)](/api/content/)

Get or set the text content of elements in the collection.

#### [attr()](/api/attr/)

Get or set attributes on elements in the collection.

#### [removeAttr(attribute)](/api/removeAttr/)

Remove an attribute from each the element in the collection.
